picture show.
And then after that, would you go get a Coke somewhere?
I did.
I'd go down to Northgate and get an ice cream.
And you must weigh about now what you weighed then?
No, sir.
Oh.
When I finished high school, I weighed 120 pounds.
Oh, boy.
When I went to A&M, I weighed about
130.
After my freshman year, I got up to 140.
And that's about all I waited until I went into service.
Let's see.
You go on active duty in the spring of 42.
As you were getting ready to go, what arrangements did you make?
Did you send some things home?
Didn't even get to see my family.
Oh, my.
I didn't, I guess, talked to my brother in Houston and told him I was fixing to go overseas, and he said, son, you're crazy.
You're not going overseas this quick.
You just went into Cyrus.
I said, well...
can be a fellow by the class ahead of me in the class of forty, Brian Mitchell, went in the same time I did, and he had a car.
And I said, can I bring Lieutenant Mitchell's car to Houston and you store it till he can get it back home?
He said yes.
And he brought me to Houston.
I told my brother goodbye, and I didn't get to go see my mother, my daddy, anybody.
Now, you had not yet graduated.
Yes.
I had graduated.
They gave me the last six weeks.
My brother went through and got my diploma.
I left April the 10th, and the graduation wasn't until May.
My brother went through and got my diploma at A&M.
I didn't.
And that reminds me of one to mention.
the fellow that ran the Cadillac Bar in Nueva Lareda all those years, Porter.
Porter Garner.
He told me that his group, they went on active duty.
They were six hours short of being seniors and that they were allowed to get their senior rings six hours short, that they were about the only group he'd ever heard of.
that were allowed to do that because they got called to active duty.
So you went from College Station then to active duty.
Did you send some stuff home or did you take what little you had with you?
I guess I sent it home.
I don't know.
I don't remember.
That's too long ago.
All right.
Let's see more about life at A&M in those days.
Did many students smoke then?
Oh, there were several, but I wouldn't say many.
And was it cigarettes?
Well, most pipes and then there was cigarettes.
Pipes, okay.
Snuff or chewing tobacco?
I never noticed them guys dipping snuff.
A few chewed tobacco, not many.
What about cigars?
A few smoked cigars, not many.
Did you and your buddies even know the word marijuana?
No.
Or heroin?
How often did some student have any alcohol in his room?
I don't know of any.
I'm sure there was, but I didn't know of any.
Did you and your buddies know about the steam tunnels?
No.
Because later there would be kids would get down in the... I didn't even know there was that until I got a friend from Mr. Forsyte and he helped put them in and told me about them.
Did you ever go to a commencement?
No.
You didn't get to go to the one where you graduated.
Did you go to the commencement earlier than then?
No, sir.
But you did go to final review your fourth year.
I wasn't in it.
Your fourth year?
Oh, no, that's right.
Oh.
So you never got to wear your senior boots at a final review?
No, sir.
My, my.
Oh.
And because I was going to ask, did anyone from home come, your parents or anything?
So nobody got to come to that.
Let's see, muster.
Do you remember going to muster as a student?
No, sir.
All right, I haven't run into many people who remember muster before the war.
No, sir, I don't remember the war.
I believe that World War II made muster far more important than it had been.
First muster I went to was in Angelo, Italy.
Oh, describe that.
Please, just describe.
Well, we killed a goat and we barbecued a goat.
And it was on April 21.
Yes, sir.
About how many people were there?
About 12.
And y'all Aggies?
Yes, sir.
What did y'all, other than to eat the goat, what did y'all do as a part of that muster?
To tell stories?
Oh, well, glad to see one another.
And do you remember who thought of the idea?
No, sir.
Of doing it.
You were with what outfit then?
I was with 106th and the aircraft battalion, separate battalion.
And we stayed in a separate battalion all the way through World War II.
We would be attached to one outfit and then another.
Were you all attached to the 36th Division?
For a short time.
I was with them when they got the fire knocked out of them.
That's what made me think of it because they were in some of the toughest action.
Well, we tried to tell them they wouldn't listen.
Did you go in at Salerno also?
Yes, sir.
Oh, tough, tough.
Tough, tough.
I made 70 days.
My, my.
Where were the others?
Well, North Africa, Sicily, Tunisia, and then southern France, and then into Germany.
There's seven of them.
Which was the toughest?
I'd say Angelo was the toughest.
How did your A&M experience prepare you for World War II?
What did you learn at A&M that helped?
Well, they taught us to be officers and we had to pay the part of officers in the war.
We had to take care of
Like when I was in the company, we had about a hundred and ten men in the company.
I had to take care of those hundred and ten men.
Did your A&M experience teach you anything about working together, team play?
Oh, yeah.
What do you think were the key elements of being a good officer?
Put yourself in the same place as you, your men in the same place that you are.
In other words, don't ask them to do something that you wouldn't do.
That was my theory.
I didn't ask anybody to do anything that I wouldn't do myself.
What creates Aggie's spirit?
Why are Aggies so proud?
I don't know.
It just seemed like it was born to me.
Are there some events that helped to pull Aggies together?
Oh, yeah.
There's things that happened.
It just goes to show you just like this year, this last year in the bonfire, that
that pulled everybody together.
I've wondered, does muster and yell practice and football games?
Well, muster does.
Muster brings a lot.
The midnight yell practice, it helps some, but there's a lot of now.
When you get my age, you don't go to a midnight yell practice.
No, but I was meaning as you grow up.
But must have brings a lot of people together.
Class reunions.
Silver taps while you're a student.
Yes, sir.
Those rings.
And the boots.
Of course, the boots don't play that big a part more than that many of them.
As you look back, what kind of difference did it make in your life that you went to A&M?
It learned me to take orders.
I was the youngest of five children.
And I was a baby.
And I had high temper.
And it took a lot of that out of me.
Did it also teach you how to lead?
Yes, sir.
Now, you already knew how to work hard, so it didn't teach you.
You didn't have to learn that.
Did it help you learn to work with different kinds of people?
Yes, sir.
I think it did.
Are there some people that you met at A&M that have been very important in your life?
Well, in later life, yes.
I'm very, you probably know I'm connected with the athletic department quite a bit.
Yes, sir.
I think a lot of John David Crowe.
Mm-hmm.
And Wally Groff.
And then R.C.
Slocum, I like R.C.
Slocum very much.
We both went to the same high school.
Did you?
He was an orange tiger about 10 years after I was.
My high school coach was Brooks Conover, who was, I think, class of 33 at A&M.
He later moved back up to Cleburne, but he was my high school coach.
See, during the war, as you might remember, a whole bunch of people moved to boom towns, and Orange had three big shipyards.
My father went there to work in the shipyard, and I think that's why he ended up there also.
We moved from Garland up near Dallas, and we thought when we got up to Kirbyville or Jasper, we were way up in the woods.
You were.
And I went to scout camp at Camp Bill Stark on Cow Creek.
My wife's father had a camp just a little further down.
Oh, really?
Yes.
Okay.
I broke my arm one year there, and we went into Kirbyville on Saturday night.
My parents picked me up, and we could find only one doctor.
Dr. McCrite.
And he suggested that we go on back to Orange, that I could make the trip well.
But that's one of my memories of Kirbyville.
R.C.
and his two sons, they come to my farm out of Brenham and fish all the time.
What are the qualities, what are the key ingredients of being an Aggie?
What are the characteristics of an Aggie?
Well, you got to like people, for one thing, and you got to be yourself and everybody's equal.
And to be helpful?
Yes, sir, be helpful.
Can't be self-centered.
Well, I don't have but three or four questions left.
What have we not covered that we should have?
Oh, were there ever any times when you had a problem at A&M that somebody helped you that really made a difference?
No, sir.
So you didn't go broke.
You didn't have to go borrow money.
No, sir.
Other than your broken jaw, you didn't have any injuries.
You weren't about to flunk out or get kicked out.
No, sir.
I never was on probation.
Never was on probation.
No.
Do you have any, if you had all the A&M teachers here in the room that you had, are there any of them you would especially want to thank?
Yes.
Who would they be?
I can't think of his name right now.
It's too long ago.
That was a fellow in mechanical drawing.
Randall.
Oh, Cliff Randall.
Randall?
Randall.
How did he help you?
Well, he tutored me after class.
Because you hadn't had much drawing, I'll bet, in Kirbyville High School.
No.
Now, how old were you when you got there?
When I got there.
Well, I was 18.
See, I finished high school in 16.
And I was two years out of high school before I went to college.
Now, were you a year or so older than the average fish?
No, sir.
Oh, there were a number of other 18-year-olds?
Because I finished high school when I was barely 16.
Were there any Latin American Aggies?
Any Mexican American?
Not many.
A few.
And you said there were some Jewish boys.
Were there any international Aggies?
Oh, we had a boy in our outfit from the Philippine Islands.
Did he have a nickname?
Palanibal was his name.
Palanibal?
What we called him.
Do you have any idea why he was at A&M?
What led him to be...
Let's see.
You must have known John Kimbrough.
Oh, yeah.
What was he like as a person?
John's a hard person to know.
Is that right?
Was he then?
Yes, sir.
Was he shy?
No, not necessarily shy, but he just, well, I shouldn't say this.
He just wasn't the friendliest person in the world.
Okay.
What about Marion Pugh?
Marion Pugh was very friendly.
Now, why was he nicknamed Dookie?
I don't know.
Because he was well liked, wasn't he?
Yes, sir.
Who was the, was he the key, he was the quarterback, was he the one that made that Aggie team work together?
Who was the key?
Well, I don't know about that.
I wouldn't think so.
Of course, you know, Price was the quarterback the year we won the national championship.
He was a substitute.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Then Pugh was the quarterback the next year, and we lost the last game to Texas.
Did you go to that game?
Yes, sir.
Describe your feelings.
Well, that was one of the few games I carried a date to, and I was all upset.
Ever played in Austin.
Because you all were dreaming about going to the Rose Bowl.
Yep.
And so what was it like coming home, coming back from that game?
Wasn't much talking.
But now the previous year when won the national championship, how much did y'all celebrate?
Well, I didn't get to go to New Orleans.
Oh, you didn't get to go?
I didn't have the money.
But when you beat Texas, y'all must have had a good time.
Yeah.
Let's see.
What has it meant to you in your life that you went to Texas A&M?
What difference has that made in your life?
It taught me how to get along with people.
It helped me in my business to supervise people.
And it has touched your heart, obviously, because there are some of your responses when I can tell in your eyes how proud you are.
How proud are you to be an Aggie?
My wife could explain to you better than I could.
What feelings do you have for A&M today?
A lot.
And I hate that it's got to where that everybody that wants to go to A&M can't go.
I think there's a lot of good people.
They would make good Aggies.
They can't get in today.
But should we let it get bigger than it is now?
How big should we let it get?
I don't know.
Of course, you know, I'm back from the old school.
If I was still running, there'd still be all military.
But I know that had to change.
And I don't know...
You know, money controls most everything.
You got to have money to get the good teachers to keep them, and you got to have the facilities.
I don't think it can be much larger.
I agree with you.
You said you've had grandchildren.
Did you have any children went to A&M?
I had one son that finished A&M.
And I've got three grandchildren that's finished.
Any granddaughters in that group?
Yeah, two.
One of them's a medical doctor and the other one's a PhD.
And you're happy that they got to go to A&M?
Oh, yeah, and they're happy with it.
You're happy with co-education?
Yes, sir.
Well, might as well be.
if of all the parts of A&M which ones do you care most about you've been very generous to athletics what else at A&M do the core I don't give more to the core why is the core dear to your heart
I think it teaches a person to be a better person.
Okay.
So, last question.
What are your wishes for A&M in the future?
Well, I hope that Boeing gets them in the top ten universities.
I think we belong there.
And I think we'll make it.